# MS274 Project - Investigating Remotely Sensed Environmental Drivers of Rockfish Recruitment in the California Current System

A repository for the MS 274 project at MLML fall 2024 semester. 

## Project Abstract 
The California Current System is an eastern boundary upwelling system with complex wind-driven upwelling dynamics. This seasonal upwelling drives changes in various oceanic parameters including temperature, nutrient concentrations, and other biogeochemical processes, which all influence marine populations within this ecosystem. One specific way that shifting ocean conditions influence marine population dynamics is by affecting the recruitment of the population. The goal of this research is to investigate the environmental drivers of rockfish recruitment by investigating two species with contrasting life history strategies: blue rockfish (Sebastes mystinus), a mid-water species, and copper rockfish (Sebastes caurinus), a benthic species). Using remotely sensed datasets from 2003-2019, including sea surface temperature, wind velocity, and a Coastal Upwelling Transport Index (CUTI), this study aims to identify correlations between environmental variables and young-of-year (YOY) rockfish abundance. Moreover, this research aims to determine which environmental drivers best predict YOY recruitment and how these variables are interrelated. The results show species-specific responses to environmental conditions with upwelling strength and sea surface temperature having opposite correlations between the two rockfish species. Blue rockfish recruitment was positively correlated with upwelling strength and negatively correlated with sea surface temperature, while copper rockfish showed inverse relationships. Environmental variable correlations highlighted the dynamic nature of the CCS during the upwelling season, with an expected negative correlation between upwelling strength and sea surface temperature and positive correlation between upwelling strength and wind velocity. The study highlights the complexity of rockfish recruitment and the importance of studying how different oceanic parameters influence species specific recruitment. This research also highlights the potential of using remotely sensed data in fisheries research, providing insights into more fine-scale environmental drivers of marine population dynamics. 
